In this video we'll talk about the different cluster deployment options that we have with the NSX edge
and how we should design NSX along with our virtual data center to ensure maximum performance and availability.
So we have really three different cluster deployment options and this is for the underlying vse for
environment that NSX is running on top of.
So probably the simplest configuration is using a single cluster.
We place all of the NSX components on the same cluster that are virtual machines run on.
And again this is good for a small deployment type scenario where we don't have a whole lot of extra
hosts to work with now as our environment grows.
We get a little bit more flexibility and what we could do is we can establish something called a management
cluster and in larger environments these are pretty common.
So we'll have a group of VSX high hosts that things like V Center Update Manager NSX manager and maybe
Active Directory domain controllers run on.
And that's called the management cluster.
We can also put our NSX virtual appliances on that cluster of hosts.
And again this is good for larger deployments that can actually dedicate hosts specifically to these
management and edge functions.
Now why would we bother doing this.
Why separate management venoms why separate edge VMS.
There's a few reasons that we might use a collapsed engine management cluster.
Number one we may have a regulatory requirement.
We may need to keep management virtual machines on SEPA hardware or we may just want to isolate performance
issues.
So for example if some management virtual machines start chewing up a lot of resources we probably don't
want that to affect our compute workloads.
So that's kind of the rationale to have a separate cluster.
And we can again put adj virtual machines and management the OM's on that same cluster or if we have
a really large vse fear deployment we might actually be able to create three clusters one for management
one cluster for adj and one compute cluster.
And again this is good for the largest environments where we can have a group of hosts specifically
dedicated to each function.
Right so maybe we have multiple compute clusters and then we'll have a single management cluster with
things like V Center things like NSX manager with things like our NSX control or cluster.
Those are all great candidates for a management closter and at the edge cluster we can have our edge
of virtual appliances.
So let's take a little bit of a look at what this looks like in a few diagrams.
Here we see an NSX deployment in a single cluster and up at the top left you can see in the light green
box we have an ESX host cluster.
So here's a single cluster of ESX I hosts and we're going to put everything within this one single cluster.
So here we have some virtual machines that are considered compute workloads and these are application
type virtual machines or databases or things like that.
Right.
And they can run on any of the ESX hosts in this particular cluster.
This is a cluster that's basically doing everything.
Not only is that housing those compute workloads but it's got other virtual machines on it like V Center
like NSX manager and it's got our edge virtual appliances as well.
So again this deployment model is very well suited towards our smaller environments as the environment
grows.
We may want to consider creating a cluster that's dedicated to management and at each and now we'll
put things like Wii center in our NSX edge virtual appliances and the NSX controller cluster are this
dedicated cluster of ESX hosts that specifically for those purposes.
Now finally in the largest of environments we may have one or more clusters that are completely dedicated
to compute.
And those are all of our application VMT database volume's all of those sorts of things.
Then we can have a cluster that's specifically dedicated to management for things like Active Directory
things like again V Center update manager and NSX manager and OS X controller closter.
And then finally we've got our edge cluster which is dedicated to hosts that are really just providing
ingress and egress to and from the external network that can be our NSX edge cluster.
And again this option with separate clusters for each purpose is really for those larger environments
where you have the kind of budget that you can buy a few hosts just for management and that you can
buy a couple of hosts just as an cluster.